
教育、工作、媒体、社会、生活、品质、科技、环境

TWE185题库从内容上分为教育、工作、媒体、社会、生活、品质、科技、环境等，如果结合topic的形式或本质可分为以下7种或更多：
1.建造问题：
2) It has recently been announced that a new restaurant may be built in your neighborhood. Do you support or oppose this plan? Why? Use specific reasons and details to support your answer你家附近将要建一个大饭店。你同意还是反对，详细阐述支持你看法的原因。
4) It has recently been announced that a new movie theater may be built in your neighborhood. Do you support or oppose this plan? Why? Use specific reasons and details to support your answer.你家附近将要建一个电影院。你同意还是反对，详细阐述支持你看法的原因。
5) The government has announced that it plans to build a new university. Some people think that your community would be a good place to locate the university. Compare the advantages and disadvantages of establishing a new university in your community. Use specific details in your discussion
政府打算建一所新大学，有人认为你家附近是个合适的地方。比较好处与坏处，详细阐述。
6) It has recently been announced that a new high school may be built in your community. Do you support or oppose this plan? Why? Use specific reasons and details in your answer.可能在你们小区内建一所高中。你同意还是反对，详细阐述原因。
7) Your city has decided to build a statue or monument to honor a famous person in your country. Who would you choose? Use reasons and specific examples to support your choice你的城市要建一个名人纪念碑或雕塑。你会选择谁？说出详细原因和具体例子。
8) A university plans to develop a new research center in your country. Some people want a center for business research. Other people want a center for research in agriculture (farming). Which of these two kinds of research centers do you recommend for your country? Use specific reasons in your recommendation.
一所大学计划在你的国内建一个新的研究中心。有人希望建立商业研究中心，有人希望建立农业研究中心，你推荐哪种？
2.假设问题：
10) You have decided to give several hours of your time each month to improve the community where you live. What is one thing you will do to improve your community? Why? Use specific reasons and details to explain your choice. 
如果你决定在每个月抽出一些时间改进你居住的小区，你会做一件什么事去改进你的小区？为什么？说出你选择详细原因
11) What change would make your hometown more appealing to people your age? Use specific reasons and examples to support your opinion.
你会改变你家乡的什么以吸引和你同龄的人？
12) If you were an employer, which kind of worker would you prefer to hire: an inexperienced worker at a lower salary or an experienced worker at a higher salary? Use specific reasons and details to support your answer.
如果你是一个雇主，你愿意雇佣哪种类型的员工？低薪无经验的还是有高薪经验的？
13) If you could go back to some time and place in the past, when and where would you go? Why? Use specific reasons and details to support your choice.
如果你能回到过去的某一时间和地点，你愿意回到何时何地？
14) If you could study a subject that you have never had the opportunity to study, what would you choose? Explain your choice, using specific reasons and details.
如果你能学习一门你从来没有学过的课程，你挑选什么？
15) If you could travel back in time to meet a famous person from history, what person would you like to meet? Use specific reasons and examples to support your choice.
你如能够时光倒流回去拜访一个著名的历史人物，你会拜访谁？
16) If you could meet a famous entertainer or athlete, who would that be, and why? Use specific reasons and examples to support your choice.
如果你能过遇到一位娱乐人士或者运动员，你希望遇到谁？
17) If you could ask a famous person one question, what would you ask? Why? Use specific reasons and details to support your answer.
如果你能够问一个名人一个问题，你会问什么问题？
18) If you were asked to send one thing representing your country to an international exhibition, what would you choose? Why? Use specific reasons and details to explain your choice如果为一个国际展览挑选一物代表你的国家，你会挑选什么？
20) If you could make one important change in a school that you attended, what change would you make? Use reasons and specific examples to support your answer.
如果你能在你读书的学校做出一件重要的变化，你改变什么？
21) Holidays honor people or events. If you could create a new holiday, what person or event would it honor and how would you want people to celebrate it? Use specific reasons and details to support your answer.
假日纪念人或事。如果你能够创造一种新的假日，你会纪念谁或什么事，如何？
23) Imagine that you have received some land to use as you wish. How would you use this land? Use specific details to explain your answer.如果你获得一块土地去使用。你如何使用？
24) Imagine that you are preparing for a trip. You plan to be away from your home for a year. In addition to clothing and personal care items, you can take one additional thing. What would you take and why? Use specific reasons and details to support your choice.
假定你在准备依次旅行。计划离家一年。除了衣服和个人用具外，你可以带一件其它的东西，
你带什么？
25) A foreign visitor has only one day to spend in your country. Where should this visitor go on that day? Why? Use specific reasons and details to support your choice.
一个外国游客在你国只有一天的时间，那么该老外应该去何处？
3.个人品德问题：（父母，儿女，邻居，老板，同事，室友）:
27) What are some important qualities of a good supervisor (boss)? Use specific details and examples to explain why these qualities are important.一个好的管理者的重要质量是什么？　 
28) What are the important qualities of a good son or daughter? Have these qualities changed or remained the same over time in your culture? Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer.好儿子或女儿的品质是什么？　 
29) What are some of the qualities of a good parent? Use specific details and examples to explain your answer.好父母的品质是什么？ 
30) Many students have to live with roommates while going to school or university. What are some of the important qualities of a good roommate? Use specific reasons and examples to explain why these qualities are important.
许多学生在上高中或大学是要和室友同住，什么是一个好的室友的品质？
31) We all work or will work in our jobs with many different kinds of people. In your opinion, what are some important characteristics of a co-worker (someone you work closely with)? Use reasons and specific examples to explain why these characteristics are important
工作中一个合作者的重性格是什么？
　　 
4.花钱问题( 公司，个人，政府，学校):
公司花钱问题
32) A company is going to give some money either to support the arts or to protect the environment. Which do you think the company should choose? Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer.一个公司准备出资支持艺术或者保护环境？你认为公司该如何选择？ 
个人花钱问题 
33) You have received a gift of money. The money is enough to buy either a piece of jewelry you like or tickets to a concert you want to attend. Which would you buy? Use specific reasons and details to support your answer.你得到一笔钱足以买一件钻石或者买一张音乐会的门票。你买什么？ 
34) Is it better to enjoy your money when you earn it or is it better to save your money for some time in the future? Use specific reasons and examples to support your opinion.
当你赚得一笔钱时是立即花掉好还是存起来为将来用好？ 
36) You have enough money to purchase either a house or a business. Which would you choose to buy? Give specific reasons to explain your choice.你有足够的钱去买一个房子或者一个企业，你买什么？ 
政府花钱问题
37) Some people think that governments should spend as much money as possible on developing or buying computer technology. Other people disagree and think that this money should be spent on more basic needs. Which one of these opinions do you agree with? Use specific reasons and details to support your answer.
有些人认为政府应当尽可能地花钱购买或发展计算机技术。有些人持反对意见认为这些钱应该用在基本需求上。
你赞同哪种观点？ 
38) Some people think governments should spend as much money as possible exploring outer space (for example, traveling to the Moon and to other planets). Other people disagree and think governments should spend this money for our basic needs on Earth. Which of these two opinions do you agree with? Use specific reasons and details to support your answer.有些人认为政府应当尽可能地花钱探索宇宙（比如登月或其它星球）。
令有些人认为政府应该把钱用在我们基本的需求上。你赞同哪种观点？
39) Should governments spend more money on improving roads and highways, or should governments spend more money on improving public transportation (buses, trains, subways)? Why? Use specific reasons and details to develop your essay.
政府是应该花更多的钱改善道路还是改善公共交通工具（比如公共汽车，火车，地铁）？为什么？
学校花钱问题　 
40) Your school has received a gift of money. What do you think is the best way for your school to spend this money? Use specific reasons and details to support your choice.
你的学校得到一笔钱，最好如何花掉这笔钱？　 
41) Your school has enough money to purchase either computers for students or books for the library. Which should your school choose to buy ― computers or books? Use specific reasons and examples to support your recommendation.
你的学校有一笔钱足够为学生购买计算机或者为图书馆买书。学校该买什么？　 
5.原因题目：
43) People attend college or university for many different reasons (for example, new experiences, career preparation, increased knowledge).Why do you think people attend college or university? Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer人们上大学为很多目的，比如有人为准备工作经验，有人为增长知识。你认为人们为什么上大学？
44) In general, people are living longer now. Discuss the causes of this phenomenon. Use specific reasons and details to develop your essay讨论人们现在长寿的原因。 
46) Many people visit museums when they travel to new places. Why do you think people visit museums? Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer.很多人旅游到新地方时为什么参观博物馆？　 
47) Why do you think some people are attracted to dangerous sports or other dangerous activities? Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer.为什么有人被危险的体育或其它危险的活动所吸引？ 
48) People work because they need money to live. What are some other reasons that people work? Discuss one or more of these reasons. Use specific examples and details to support your answer.人们工作的目的是人们需要金钱而生存。人们工作的其它诸原因是什么？ 
49) Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? The most important aspect of a job is the money a person earns. Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer.工作的最重要的方面是一个人赚的金钱，同意与否？　　 
50) People listen to music for different reasons and at different times. Why is music important to many people? Use specific reasons and examples to support your choice人们在不同时间听音乐而且目的不同。音乐为什么对很多人特重要？　 
52) Is the ability to read and write more important today than in the past? Why or why not? Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer.读写能力是否比以前更重要？为什么是或非？ 
53) Movies are popular all over the world. Explain why movies are so popular. Use reasons and specific examples to support your answer为什么电影变得全球普及？ 
6.交友问题:
54) What do you want most in a friend ― someone who is intelligent, or someone who has a sense of humor, or someone who is reliable? Which one of these characteristics is most important to you? Use reasons and specific examples to explain your choice.你最喜欢朋友的什么特点――才智，幽默，可靠？哪个对你最重要？　 
55) Some people prefer to spend most of their time alone. Others like to be with friends most of the time. Do you prefer to spend your time alone or with friends? Use specific reasons to support your answer有些人喜欢单独度过闲暇，而另外有些人喜欢和朋友一起度过时间。你喜欢哪个？
56) Some people prefer to spend time with one or two close friends. Others choose to spend time with a large number of friends. Compare the advantages of each choice. Which of these two ways of spending time do you prefer? Use specific reasons to support your answer.有些人喜欢和一个或两个朋友，而另外有些人喜欢和很多朋友一起度过时间。
你喜欢哪个？
59) Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? One should never judge a person by external appearances. Use specific reasons and details to support your answer
永远不要以貌取人，同意与否？ 
7.学习和教育：
61) It has been said, “Not everything that is learned is contained in books.” Compare and contrast knowledge gained from experience with knowledge gained from books. In your opinion, which source is more important? Why？不是所有的东西能从书本中学来。比较经验知识和书本知识。哪个更重要。 
62) Some people believe that university students should be required to attend classes. Others believe that going to classes should be optional for students. Which point of view do you agree with? Use specific reasons and details to explain your answer.
学生应该不应该自己选择上课？还是要强迫学生上课？ 
64) Many teachers assign homework to students every day. Do you think that daily homework is necessary for students? Use specific reasons and details to support your answer.学生每天的作业是必要的吗？ 
65) Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Grades (marks) encourage students to learn. Use specific reasons and examples to support your opinion.
考试分数鼓励学生学习吗？　 
66) Some universities require students to take classes in many subjects. Other universities require students to specialize in one subject. Which is better? Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer.有些学校要求学生学习很多专业？还有些学校只要求学生集中在某一具体的学科上。哪个更好？　 
67) Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Boys and girls should attend separate schools. Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer.
男女应该分学校上课吗？ 
68) Some people believe that a college or university education should be available to all students. Others believe that higher education should be available only to good students. Discuss these views. Which view do you agree with? Explain why.高等教育是否应该给所有的学生？还是给优秀的学生？
70) People learn in different ways. Some people learn by doing things; other people learn by reading about things; others learn by listening to people talk about things. Which of these methods of learning is best for you? Use specific examples to support your choice.做事，听别人讲，读书――那种方法对你而言是最好的。
71) Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? People should read only those books that are about real events, real people, and established facts. Use specific reasons and details to support your opinion人们只应该读关于现实的书，比如关于真实的人和事的书，同意与否？　 
72) Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? It is more important for students to study history and literature than it is for them to study science and mathematics. Use specific reasons and examples to support your opinion科学和历史文学哪个更重要？
74) Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? All students should be required to study art and music in secondary school. Use specific reasons to support your answer高中学生必须学习音乐和艺术吗？
75) Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? High schools should allow students to study the courses that students want to study. Use specific reasons and examples to support your opinion.高中应该准许学生学习他们喜欢的课程吗？ 
76) In the future, students may have the choice of studying at home by using technology such as computers or television or of studying at traditional schools. Which would you prefer? Use reasons and specific details to explain your choice.学生在家里利用计算机和电视机学习，还是传统的学校学习？你喜欢什么？
77) Some students like classes where teachers lecture (do all of the talking) in class. Other students prefer classes where the students do some of the talking. Which type of class do you prefer? Give specific reasons and details to support your choice.有些学生喜欢老师讲课。另有些人喜欢学生讲一些。你喜欢哪一种？　 
78) Some students prefer to study alone. Others prefer to study with a group of students. Which do you prefer? Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer.有些人喜欢单独学习，有些人喜欢和一群人一起学习。你喜欢哪种？
79) Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Children should begin learning a foreign language as soon as they start school. Use specific reasons and examples to support your position.学生一上学就该学习一门外语。同意与否？ 
80) Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Classmates are a more important influence than parents on a child’s success in school. Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer.　　 同班同学比父母对小孩在学校的成功的影响更大。同意与否？


