
322 Students walking across campus to class assume that the building is open, that the teacher is still alive and sufficiently motivated to be there, that their watches are accurate in indicating that it is time for class, and that going to class will help them learn the subject (or at least not hinder them from learning it). 
263 For several decades advocates of the idea have argued that fairness demands it because such parents already support the public schools through taxes and must at present bear an additional financial burden for exercising free choice over their children's education. 
255 First, remind yourself often that people and institutions and processes seldom fit into neat categories and that critical thinking demands that you evaluate each on what it is at the particular time and place and circumstance, not one preconceived notions. e
249 (For example, the tendency of many on the "pro" side to ignore the question of at what point, if any, the fetus acquires human rights; and the tendency of many on the "anti" side to minimize the emotional harm often caused by having an unwanted baby.  
248 (Although the principles and approaches presented in this chapter apply to both spoken and written viewpoints, the focus here is on the latter because the written word is less fleeting than the spoken word and can therefore the analyzed more easily. 
234 Since the early 1970s, when visitors were permitted in China, reports have suggested not only that their health care is quite advanced but that in general it is better for he average person than what is available in the Untied States. 
221 How, for example, can people deal sensibly with questions of Indian land claims when they see every Indian as a feathered savage uttering bloodcurdling shrieks while burning settlers' homes and scalping women and children. 
218 If a book or magazine or stereo record or videotape contains ideas that are philosophically alien to the American way of life, it is not only the right but the duty of responsible citizens to remove it from circulation. 
203 While reading a book that discussed effective teaching, she encountered a chapter that examined a particular classroom practice and showed how it was not only ineffective but actually harmful to learning. 184 Consulting those who have given their special attention to the field of knowledge in question is therefore not a mark of dependence or irresponsibility but of efficiency and good sense. 
174 Assuming is taking something for granted 每 that is, unconsciously holding an idea about something without ever trying to verify it, sometimes being unaware we have the idea.


347 John McWhorter argues that most problems in the black community can be traced to one or more of the following causes: a sense of victimhood, the idea that black Americans are exempt from the rules and standards other Americans must live by, and anti-intellectualism〞that is, the idea that education and the development of the mind are unimportant.
343 However, although no absolute statement can be made about the amount of inquiry required, you can be reasonably sure your inquiries are complete when you have made a thorough and careful effort to learn the relevant facts and to consult informed opinion in all fields of study that have a direct bearing on the specific issue you are analyzing.
337 Political science professor Larry Sabato says that during the Clinton impeachment trial, the president＊s advisors used the term private lives over and over〞James Carville used it six times in one four-minute eech〞because they knew it could persuade people into believing the president＊s lying under oath was of no great consequence.
332 Larry Elder casts doubt on the notion that poverty causes crime by demonstrating that in the 1960s the San Francisco neighborhood that had the lowest income, highest unemployment, and highest amount of substandard housing was Chinatown, yet in 1965 in the entire state of California only five Chinese individuals were sent to prison.
326 Supporters of the government＊s decision reject both arguments, contending that captured terrorists are neither criminals nor soldiers but ※unlawful combatants,§ adding that any other designation would imposerdens on the United States that would make it difficult to fight terrorism and thereby threaten national security.
323 He sought to establish that exclusive heterosexuality is abnormal and results merely from conditioning and inhibition; that sex between a man and a woman is no more natural than sex between two men, two women, a man and a child, or a man and an animal; and that bisexuality should be considered the norm for human sexuality.
315 More than a few television moguls make the rounds of talk shows arguing that the violent, sex-sodden shows they produce have no influence on people＊s behavior and then, almost in the next breath, praise publicservice announcements for AIDS prevention and the responsible use of alcohol for making the world better.
314 It is likely, he believes, that the Tasaday were once members of the neighboring farming tribes who fled several hundred years ago (perhaps to avoid slave traders) and who hid in the forest for so many generations that they not only regressed to a Stone Age culture but lost all memory of their more advanced state.
302 § Though it is impossible to be certain why they thought as they did, the fact that they expressed the opinion in the very same words incessantly repeated by a half dozen White House advisors and innumerable oher Clinton supporters suggests that they simply borrowed the opinion without evaluating it.
280 In the case of the changes in European society, the movement of people from farm to city and the use of birth control were individual choices, but the greater availability of jobs in the cities (an economic reality) and birth control technology (a scientific development) were not.
were not 伅砩佷
275 Awhite Michigan firefighter with sixteen years of service scored fifth on the promotion list for lieutenant but was denied a promotion because two black firefighters (one of whom had scored twelfth and the other twenty-first) were moved ahead of him to achieve racial balance.
260 He found that when he accomplished that, they no longer behaved stupidly! Maltz concludes from this and other examples that our experiences can work a kind of self-hypnotism on us, suggesting a conclusion about ourselves and then urging us to make it come true.
249 If, as is more likely, you find that one view is more insightful than the others but that they all make some valid points, construct a view of your own that combines the insights from all views and explain why that view is the most reasonable of all.
244 The leap of faith consists in going from the conclusion of a merely philosophical theology to a religious belief in a God that has revealed himself as a loving, just and merciful Creator of the cosmos, a God to be loved, worshiped and prayed to.
240 Errors or tendencies to error associated with one＊s individual habits of mind or personal attitudes, beliefs, or theories (for example, the habit of thinking the worst of members of a race or religion against hich one harbors prejudice) 3.
236 Facts and opinions are often mingled in contemporary publications, particularly nonscholarly ones, so careful reading may be necessary to reveal which statements constitute evidence and which statements should be supported with evidence.
231 He advised advertisers to ※tell [the consumer] something that will tie him up with fear, something that will stir up a mild rage, that will call out an affectionate or love response, or strike at a deep psychoogical or habit need.
227 In the case of the breakthrough ideas, the scholars would say that when people become engrossed in problems or issues, their unconscious minds often continue working on them long after they have turned their attention elsewhere.
226 If you keep quiet about momentary irritations and distract yourself with pleasant activity until your fury simmers down, chances are you will feel better, and feel better faster, than if you let yourself go in a shouting match.
220 That is why a considerable amount of contemporary news and commentary deals in speculation, gossip, and unfounded opinion and why shouting matches between proponents of opposing views often substitute for reasoned debate.
204 They reasoned that an alcoholic can speak more authoritatively than a teetotaler on the misuse of alcohol, a reformed criminal is more familiar with the evils of crime than a lawabiding citizen, and so on.
201 The quality of your schoolwork, your efforts in your career, your contributions to community life, your conduct of personal affairs〞all will depend on your ability to solve problems and make decisions.
195 When New York Times reporter Jason Blair was discovered to have plagiarized stories from other reporters and fabricated quotations and details in his stories, he resigned his position in disgrace.
188 They thought, ※If intelligence cannot be increased, we must find ways of encouraging reproduction among people of higher intelligence and discouraging it among those of lower intelligence.
178 9 The German writer Goethe had been experiencing great difficulty organizing a large mass of material for one of his works when he learned of the tragic suicide of a close friend.
174 Even if you rebelled against the values of your time and place, they still would represent the context of your life求in other words, they still would influence your responses.
169 The image of a snake swallowing its tail came to him求and that provided the clue to the structure of the benzene molecule, which is a ring, rather than a chain, of atoms.
160 § They even go so far as to test the impact of certain words求that is why we hear so much about ※trust,§ ※family,§ ※character,§ and ※values§ these days.
156 For this to happen, loquacious people need to exercise a little restraint, and more reserved people need to accept responsibility for sharing their thoughts.


