
ref:
http://workbloom.com/resume/sample/project-engineer.aspx

timezone

Education 
    2004.09¡ª2008.06:	B.S. , major in Automation, Hubei Unversity of Technology

SKILLS:
	- Familiar with Microarchitecture, SOC, IC Frontend Design, Operating System, etc.
    - Bus protocol: Wishbone/AHB/AXI
	- Programming Language: Good at C/C++£¬familiar with Java, Python, Assembly, Verilog, VHDL.
	- Platform: Programming experience in Linux, Android;
	- Proficient in Linux kernel, Linux device drivers and GCC toolchain, crossbuild.
	- Linux tool: bash, vim, git, svn, MS Word, Latex.
	- Time and task management

PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE
    - Routon, Wuhan
    - Loongson 
        2008/7¡ª¡ªnow:		(place:	Microprocessor Research Center of ICT)
        Researching on finding the most optimized options provided by GCC compiler using "acovea" tool. Improve this tool to test SPECCPU2000 for higher score.
        Focus on optimizing the pipeline characteristics of GCC compiler. Add the exact godson instruction latencies and pipeline descriptions into GCC code in order to do the best of static scheduling.
        Focus on adding the 128-bit memory-access instructions to GCC compiler in order to make the full use of GODSON3¡¯s 128-bit data accessing width.
        Focus on building the tool-chain for GODSON. Add the special instructions of GODSON to the assembler. Take charge of the native and cross tool-chain¡¯s maintenance.

        OR1200 SOC 
        Leading the OR1200 CPU verification and it¡¯s SOC design.
        Deep verify the OR1200 CPU,  to unify the RTL code and it¡¯s architecture documents, and fix some bug in RTL and linux kernel proting problem.
        Design the OR1200 SOC with wishbone bus , and FPGA verification plan.

        Participated in the Design of Loongson-2F southbridge Chip 
        Mainly worked on USB IP integertion , include system function verification, FPGA verification.
        Well understand USB 2.0 and EHCI, OHCI protocol. 
        Developed LPC (Low Pin Count) interface in the northbridge using Verilog HDL, accomplished functional and timing simulation.

        LTE SOC
        Deveoloped  AXI interface crossbar and AXI multiplexer and AXI to AHB bridge.
        Top level module integation, include four DSP, one stack processor and a lot of peripheral. evaluated the area and timing in the DC and resource used in FPGA.

        Acted as one of the main contributors to the design of verification platform which used Cacende's xtreme accelactor. 
     
    - RoboCup(The Robot World Cup)
        do the game in Small Size League. mainly worked at motion control system. Win the game in German.
    - 

Language Skills 

    - Proficiency: CET-4, CET-6

Personal
