
http://www.gradesaver.com/sons-and-lovers/study-guide/character-list/

Character List

Paul Morel

Gertrude Morel

Miriam Leiver
lives on a farm near the Morels, and she is Paul's first love. 

Clara Dawes
Clara is an older women estranged from her husband, Baxter Dawes. Unlike the intellectual Miriam, Clara seems to represent the body. Her sensuality attracts Paul, as does her elusiveness and mysteriousness. However, she loses this elusiveness as their affair continues, and Paul feels she has always "belonged" to her husband.

Walter Morel
Morel, the coal-mining head of the family, was once a humorous, lively man, but over time he has become a cruel, selfish alcoholic. His family, especially Mrs. Morel, despises him, and Paul frequently entertains fantasies of his father's dying.

William Morel
William, Mrs. Morel's "knight," is her favorite son. But when he moves away, she disapproves of his new lifestyle and new girlfriends, especially Lily. His death plunges Mrs. Morel into grief.

Baxter Dawes
Dawes, a burly, handsome man, is estranged from his wife, Clara Dawes, because of his infidelity. He resents Paul for taking Clara, but over time the men become friends.

Annie Morel
Annie is the Morel's only daughter. She is a schoolteacher who leaves home fairly early.

Arthur Morel
Arthur, the youngest Morel son, is exceptionally handsome, but also immature. He rashly enters the military, and it takes a while until he gets out. He marries Beatrice.

Louisa Lily Denys Western
Lily, William's girlfriend, is materialistic and vain. Her condescending behavior around the Morels irritates William, and she soon forgets about him after his death.

The Leivers
The Leivers own a nearby farm that Paul and Mrs. Morel visit. They have three sons?Edgar being the eldest?and two daughters, including Miriam.

Edgar Leivers
The eldest Leiver son, Edgar and Paul become friends.

Agatha Leivers
The elder sister of Miriam, Agatha is a school-teacher who fights with Miriam for Paul's attention.

Beatrice
A friend of the Morel's who stops by and insults Miriam and flirts with Paul. She eventually marries Arthur.

Mrs. Radford
Clara's mother, with whom she lives. Clara is embarrassed by her.

Thomas Jordan
A curt, old man, Jordan employs Paul at his warehouse of surgical appliances.

Pappleworth
Paul's supervisor at Jordan's.

Fanny
A lively hunchback who works at Jordan's.

Polly
Worker at Jordan's whom Paul regularly has dinner with.

Connie
An attractive, redheaded worker at Jordan's.

Louie
Facetious worker at Jordan's.

Emma
Old, condescending worker at Jordan's.

Mr. Heaton
Clergyman who visits Mrs. Morel and becomes Paul's godfather.

Dr. Ansel
Mrs. Morel's doctor.

Jerry Purdy
Friend of Morel's.

John Field
Childhood friend of Mrs. Morel's. 

