
319 For example, in many tests you might want to derive from the generic data item definition and add more constraints or fields to it; or you might want to use the new derived class in the entire environment or only in a single interface; or perhaps you must modify the way data is sent to the DUT by deriving a new driver.
284 Running as a Virtual Sequence When the registers in the DUT become accessible via more than one physical bus interface, the same register sequence may instead be started as a virtual sequence as the sequencer used in each write/read call is not directly referenced.
281 The register layer classes support front-door and back-door access to provide redundant paths to the register and memory implementation, and verify the correctness of the decoding and access paths, as well as increased performance after the physical access paths have been verified.
269 Indirect access of an array of such registers is accomplished by first writing an ¡°index¡± register with a value that specifies the array¡¯s offset, followed by a read or write of a ¡°data¡± register to obta set the value for the register at that specified offset.
259 For example, you could access a large memory in a limited address space using an indexing mechanism: the desired offset within the memory is written into a register, then the data at that memory offset is read or written by reading or writing another register.
252 The verification environment also contains a multi-channel sequence mechanism (that is, virtual sequencer) which synchronizes the timing and the data between the different interfaces and allows fine control of the test environment for a particular test.
250 The implementation of that method should not simply wait for the active edge of the clock signal used to update the field values in the design; for optimal performance, the implementation of that method should only return when an actual change occurs. 
244 The monitor should never rely on state information collected by other components, such as a driver, but it may need to rely on request-specific id information in order to properly set the sequence and transaction id information for the response. 
225 1 User¡¯s Guide does not necessarily represent the standard of care by which the adequacy of a given professional service must be judged nor should this document be applied without consideration of a project unique aspects. 
211 However, if other agents on the bus interface perform read and write transactions outside the context of the register model, the register model must learn of these bus operations to update its mirror accordingly. 
185 In practice, TLM refers to a family of abstraction levels beginning with cycle-accurate modeling, the most abstract level, and extending upwards in abstraction as far as the eye can see. 
171 One of the biggest advantages of the factory is that it is transparent to the test writer and reduces the object-oriented expertise required from both developers and users. 
165 Using an abstracted, feature-based approach (and not relying on implementation details) enables you to have a more readable, scalable, and reusable verification plan. 
139 The factory allows you to substitute the verification component without having to provide a derived version of the parent component as well. 
127 This is necessary to allow the sequencer to route response transactions back to the correct sequence in bidirectional protocols. 


