[[systemverilog]]
[[Clifford E. Cummings经典论文合集]]

[[verilog.code]]
[[verilog.code.error]]

input output弄反了，出现的问题很难检查。

%d,$time ; print time

实例化时替换
:'<,'>s/\,/\t\t()\,/g

verilog lrm - ieee std 1364-2005
	secureip

模块的连接使用bus来完成，可以清晰和减小代码量, 重新定义的时候也好修改。


403 The location information (file name and line number) of the current instance of the user-defined system task or function shall be appended to the message using a format compatible with warning and error messages generated by the software product, and the message shall be written to both the output channel of the software product which invoked the PLI application and the output log file of the product. 
329 Using this strategy, the tool which actually does the binding only needs to be told the top-level module(s) of the design to be bound, and then it shall use the precompiled form of the cell description(s) from the library to determine the subinstances and descend hierarchically down the design binding each cell as it is located.
328 Notifier regs in negative timing checks shall be toggled when the timing check detects a timing vio-lation, which occurs when the delayed signals as measured by the adjusted timing check values are in viola-tion, not when the undelayed signals at the model inputs as measured by the original timing check values are in violation.
313 In general they all perform the following steps: a) Define a time window with respect to the reference signal using the specified limit or limits; b) Check the time of transition of the data signal with respect to the time window; c) Report a timing violation if the data signal transitions within the time window.
293 When a signal of known value and unambiguous strength com-bines with a component of a signal of ambiguous strength, these shall be the effects: a) The strength levels of the ambiguous strength signal that are greater than the strength level of the unambiguous signal shall remain in the result.
274 The type and range of module parameters shall be in accordance with the following rules: A parameter declaration with no type or range specification shall default to the type and range of the final value assigned to the parameter, after any value overrides have been applied.
253 For example, in the situation where a constant number is repetitively used throughout a description, a text macro would be useful in that only one place in the source description would need to be altered if the value of the constant needed to be changed.
239 The period character shall be used to separate each of the names in the hierarchy, except for escaped iden-tifiers embedded in the hierarchical name reference, which are followed by separators composed of white space and a period-character.
236 1 Simulation-event-related callbacks The vpi_register_cb() callback mechanism can be registered for callbacks to occur for simulation events, such as value changes on an expression or terminal, or the execution of a behavioral statement.
225 The IEEE shall not be responsible for identifying patents for which a license may be required by an IEEE standard or for conducting inquiries into the legal validity or scope of those patents that are brought to its attention.
198 This causes the notifiers for these timing checks to toggle at the wrong time relative to the rest of the model, perhaps resulting in transi-tions to X due to a timing check violation being canceled.
162 The strength levels of the ambiguous strength signal that are of opposite value and lesser strength than the unambiguous strength signal disappear from the result.
140 By publication of this standard, no position is taken with respect to the existence or validity of any patent rights in connection therewith.
128 The primary audiences for this standard are the implementors of tools supporting the language and advanced users of the language.
116 The compiler behavior dictated by a compiler directive shall take effect as soon as the compiler reads the directive.

