
114 For each core, there is a master Answer Record that contains the Release Notes and Known Issues list for each core.
142 Verilog UniSim structural model Xilinx recommends that simulations utilizing UniSim-based structural models are run using a resolution of 1 ps.
149 If latency is required but area is more important than speed, add an SRL16-based shift register to the S output of this module for optimal area usage.
157 Except for those instructions that explicitly round their result towards zero, the only supported rounding mode is round-to-nearest (the default in IEEE-754). 
161 At runtime, the ChipScope Analyzer tool communicates to the IBERT core through JTAG, using the Xilinx cables and proprietary logic that is part of the IBERT core. 
165 With compiler modifications provided by Xilinx, single-precision floating point instructions can be executed to achieve increased performance over software emulation. 
171 Pro Integrated Bit Error Ratio Tester (IBERT) core for Virtex-5 GTP is a customizable core that can be used to evaluate and monitor the health of Virtex-5 GTP Transceivers. 
172 When using a single-precision FPU, careless coding may result in double-precision software emulation routines being used instead of the native single-precision instructions. 
181 The current running disparity value is used to select which unbalanced code group will be used when the encoding for a character requires a choice between two unbalanced code groups. 
184 An optional operation where the SS output is toggled automatically with each 8-bit character transfer by the master device can be selected via a bit in the SPICR for SPI master devices. 
187 However, if the goal is to experiment with the relative performance of different FPU configurations or software emulation, it is more convenient to vary the FPU type compiler flag instead. 
197 this limited warranty does not extend to any use of the products in an application or environment that is not within the specifications stated on the then-current xilinx data sheet for the products. 
198 In other words, the parameters near the top of the table are in the outer loops of the sweep algorithm while the parameters near the bottom of the table are in the inner loops of the sweep algorithm. 
212 You can place the ICON, ILA, VIO, and ATC2 cores (collectively called the ChipScope Pro cores) into your design by generating the cores with the CORE Generator tool and instantiating them into the HDL source code. 
223 The SPI architecture does not provide any means for a slave to throttle traffic on the bus; consequently, the SPIDRR is updated following each completed transaction only if the SPIDRR was read prior to the last SPI transfer. 
225 After an edge for an edge-sensitive interrupt input signal or after the establishment of the active level for a level-sensitive interrupt input signal, the signal must remain stable for a minimum interval to guarantee capture. 
262 SSI technology enables the production of higher capability FPGAs than traditional manufacturing methods, enabling the highest capacity and highest performance FPGAs ever created to reach production more quickly and with less risk than would otherwise be possible. 
265 During simulation, the FIFO Generator core is instantiated as a black box and replaced during implementation with the structural netlist model generated by the Vivado IP Catalog IP customizer for timing simulation or a behavioral model for the functional simulation. 
294 The TLAST and TUSER signals are supported on each channel purely as an optional aid to system design for the scenario in which the data stream being passed through the complex multiplier does indeed have some packetization or ancillary field, but which is not relevant to the complex multiplier.
318 The best way to ensure that both external clocks coming in through clock-capable inputs and internally generated clocks coming from IP do not run into conflicts accessing the internal clock networks is to build an initial design containing the desired clock networks and IP, and run it through the implementation tools.

